PROFILE
 Team oriented Software QA Test Engineer/Developer with excellent organizational, interpersonal, strong analysis and problem
solving skills
 Result oriented Software QA personal with Automation and testing with in-depth experience in Application software, Real
Time Embedded and Device Driver, Web application, client server application software, languages C, C++,Java, Python,
Perl, Shell scripting and testing.
 I have worked in Software Development in the areas like POS, Cable communication, Mobile communication, rail signaling,
Aerospace, Web application, device driver application, and middleware , web services, data services and SOA application.
 Knowledge of design patterns, strong object-oriented design and development skills, expert knowledge of C, C++, VC++and C#
languages, Windows APIs, MFC, multi-threaded programming on Visual Studio 2013 and TFS.
 Knowledge of debugging tools Neumega Softice, Windbg ,gdb, experience in working with or administrating source control
SVN, TFS, Bug Tracking system JIRA, bugzilla,Test Manager, Zyphyr, HPQC, Prepare document software design, create
specifications, system requirements, configuration and maintenance , prepare Test procedure, Test plan , execute Test.
 Designed Implemented web, desktop automation frame work for Selenium Web Driver for executing all regression testing
 Developed Script for web automation testing for selenium using scripting language Python, C#, Java for Selenium RC, Selenium
Web Driver, and JUNIT.
 Excellent experience with Software testing and SDLC experience with development test scripts and testing Tools development.
Technology Skills:
 Programming Languages: C, C++, VC++, C# .NET languages, Windows API, SDK,DDK,WinCE and Windows Mobile SDK
 Scripting Languages: VBScript, Java Script, Python, Perl
 Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Mac, Linux
 Databases: DB2,Postgresql,MySQL
 Automation Tools: Selenium RC, WebDriver, QTP, Smart Inspect
 IDE : Visual studio, TFS, Eclipse, Green Hills, Microchip, Freescale
 Other Tools: Quality Center, Jenkins, Mantis, JIRA, Bugzilla, DOORS, SharePoint, On Real Time RTOS, Canalyzer , Advanced
Query Tool (AQT,IBM Data base query Tool, FileZilla , RFM Analyzer, PuTTY -Telnet and SSH for Windows and Unix.
 Documentation: MS-WORD, Excel, Visio
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Thales Rail signaling Software Test engineer - Aug 2015 – Present






Test, Verify and Validate VOBC, VCC and SMC for Jubilee line 4LM, London project IS on Seltrac standard.
Develop Test tools using Visual studio and Script Development for Rail signaling solution both software and Hardware testing.
Develop software for simulated test environment tools and scripting.
Develop script using python, Perl and VB.
Testing at real environment and desktop simulator environment for integrated rail signaling subsystem.

Rogers Cable, Toronto, ON. Software QA- CPE, Embedded system platform SpecialistJan 2015 to Aug 2015.
Responsibilities:
 CPE, Platform Validation for Cable TV STB Operations, Publishing System components Publishing configuration work station,
install GUI based STB configuration software .
 Install, publish, deploy service or a component STB Apps and software packages, firmware, weather Services, other application
files and data shall allocate on DNCS/EC server on TCP/IP based protocol network BFS carousals.
 Installing STB configuration packages, Checking STB configuration, configuring Application server and Test and verify
Firmware and STB Apps on Service Impact, Network Impact, Customer Impact and Change Complexity.
 Installing Configuring Data Loader, GAP- Group Associated Package and channel map on the EC, Define the Group Rule
Definition for GAP.
 Trouble shoot GAP- Deployment issues on ECs, The GAP includes application for GAP future with Firmware, Application
Framework, Caller- ID, Mosaic, Remote TV manage, weather, Search, Content Recording.
 Run and verify system health, ensure no other unwanted work being staged or upgraded on EC.

40 Inniswood drive Toronto, ON M1R 1E5, 647-328-1045/416-532-3973



Verify Data Replication is enabled, No JSON/VART updates pending, no new STB added to the GAP, verify file ownership,
verify file permission, and confirm package appears in the package list.
 Testing Cable network on DOCSIS (Data Over Cable interface specification)–IP DIRECT, DAVIC- two-way mode, STB, Mobile
devices on IPTV in Eclipse environment on CISCO, Juniper network.
 Debug the C,C++, C#, Java code staged using gdb, Visual studio,Eclipse, prepare shell script.
Tools Used: Quality Center, Jenkins, Zephyr, Test manager, Mantis, JIRA, Bugzilla, DOORS, SharePoint, TFS, Visual Studio IDE,
Splunk, FileZilla, PuTTY -Telnet and SSH for Windows and Unix.
Comcast Cable Philadelphia, PA US, Software QA Developer
Jan 2014 to Dec 2014
Responsibilities:
 Prepare automated testing web services and data services on cloud based application and back Cassandra, Data stack, Amazon
data services system for STB cable staging and broadcasting application using automation script using Python, C#, Java.
 Prepare both manual and automated test cases and frame work for testing STB Apps, social network Apps on STB.
 Testing STB Set of Top Box Firmware, and APS and application XRE (Receiver), XREGuide, XRERedirector, GSLB(load
balancer) of host and testing APS on STB , like parental control, preferences, On Demand ,Pay per view, social APS , Face
back ,Twitter, Pandora STB boxes are from manufactures , Samsung, Motorola.
 Test XRE(receiver ) server network application an Long Poll network application ,XRe Stack,XRE guide host VM ( virtual
machine), VIPS ( virtual IPs) of the TCP/IP based network servers and nodes, load test using Jmeter and Splunk query.
 Testing XRE (receiver) on STB Admin UI mapping XRE redirector device parameter, device caps both manually and automation.
 Test different versions of firmware download STB and verify the STB working and firmware testing manually and using
automation tools.
 Test XREAPP which uses the firmware on the STB XREAPP is developed sing C,C++ and interact with APPS developed in Java.
 Test other APS Xconf which is used to download Firmware from Data services and data which is updated on the data services and
Web services with back end Cassandra data base
 Execute API test for other web services (WS) and Data services (DS), Preferences, Personalization customer done through STB
set of box Updated on the data services and Web services with back end Cassandra data base.
 Testing Web portal, Data services, Web services, and DVR broadcasting device STB.
 Tested AuthWallet Data service verifying authorization credentials updated on back database using curl or Browser app.
 Prepare test cases both automation and manual for testing data services and web services on Service oriented Architecture.
Tools Used: Zephyr, Test manager,Jenkins, Mantis, JIRA, DOORS, SharePoint, Confluence, Jmeter, FileZilla,Splunk,PuTTY -Telnet
and SSH for Windows and Unix, Mac Terminal .
Weather Network Toronto - April 2013 to Dec 2013
Responsibilities: Software QA
 Designed a framework with Selenium Webdriver, Java, and Jenkins.
 Develop test plan ,test script, execute test, both manual and automated regression test
 Develop automation script and implemented FireFox, IE, Chrome Browser using Selenium WebDriver , JUNIT
 Prepare test script for testing web application and back content management system for weather data, weather web application
and web data using automation script using Python, C#, Java.
 Developed automated test script using Selenium WebDriver, JUNIT, Solo and Instrument for mobile devices IOS, android,
windows smart phone, and apple Mac book, IPod, blackberry apps.
 Execute Manual and automated web functional regression testing using Eclipse.
 Tested web application of based HTTP, SOAP, REST,JAX-WS,LAMP stack

Prepare estimation, planning and release Test Readiness Report and deliver final product at every week scrum release.
 Verified Back end Data base DB2 and content management system (TRIDION) data updated via PHP
 Developed automated script connect Back data base through Selenium through Database driver
 Developed automation tool Software for testing DAQ (data acquisition software) for weather Data collection from different
weather system using method of message queue using C, C++, and C # on Visual Studio 2008.
 Develop Object Oriented Software testing automation for windows mobile devices android, windows smart phone using
windows mobile SDK, Windows CE using C, C++ windows API.
 Develop Software testing automation Web server application for transferring weather data from different content management
system to web and mobile server.

40 Inniswood drive Toronto, ON M1R 1E5, 647-328-1045/416-532-3973



Develop Software testing automation C,C++,C# on IDE Visual Studio 2008 for GAS (gate analysis system) get data from DAQ
and process data or prepare the Data for Data base system to send to weather network.
 Develop test plan, execute test, both manual and automated regression test.
Tools Used: TFS, Mantis, SharePoint, versions control system in SVN,TFS, Jenkins, JIRA Bugzilla.
Honeywell Aerospace software QA Developer Toronto ON (contract) Sept 2012- April 2013
Project Description:
 Qualification program for BertCan (Bus Emulation real time system of Can Bus).
 Verify the Air Systems Control Unit of the A350 XWB Air Conditioning System Operational Software,
 CAN Bus Communication, Ethernet Communication, ASCU Hardware signal Diagnostic Tests for CAN Data Communication,
CAN Bus Data Transmit and Receive Requirements.
 This CSCI is structured to detect, isolate, and validate failures of the system for the Message bits transmitted to and via a CAN
bus also message bit transmitted the date via and AFDX virtual link.
Responsibility: Embedded software Test Engineer.
 Test and verify and validate CAN Data Message Elements, CAN Data Conversion and Compression
 Test CAN Data Transmit, CAN Data Receive, CAN Signals Selection, CAN Bus Receive and send Signal Range Checking,
CAN Communication for Data Loading, Ethernet Data Communication ,Modbus
 Test Serial Link Data Communication, CSCI (Computer Software Configuration Item) External Interface
 Verify bus messages as per the CSCI Internal Interface Requirements and CSCI Internal Data Fixing Verification and Validation
of Software using C, C++,C#, for BertCan – Airbus Simulation system developing testing Tool for CAN bus
 Execute, Debug code for software verification and security verification on code developed with C,C++,C# MFC on Visual studio.
 Debug the code and verify CAN protocol using Vector CAN analyzer and NI CAN analyzer.
 Fixed software and for Bus Emulator Real Time CANBUS (BERT-CAN) Simulator of the Crystal Bird System using C,C++ On
Real Time RTOS, SDK,Visual Studio 8,2008.
 Prepared automation script using C++, Java and Perl,Python for Automated testing for Real Time Workshop for the Crystal Bird
System , Execute test using automated testing tool, integrate and configure different module.
 Develop boot and power up Bert to the state specified in power Upstate for BertCAN.
 Tested and verified Bertcan, Bertx, Bert429 Airbus Emulated system integrate with Back End Testing with Sqlite database for
Message Vector of Can BUS
 Verify and validate controller bus messages of ICD data and verify all CAN messages through Vector CAN analyzer, NI CAN
analyzer and Wire shark.
 Used Configuration management tools TFS, Mantis, SharePoint, versions control system in SVN for code and documentation
 Prepare test result, verify logs, build the code and test on simulator with host and board, verify coverage and performance.
 Integrate Cygwin to Eclipse, Eclipse to compile GCC programs correctly Execute or debug a C,C++ project under Eclipse
Using Source control SVN, Checkout a working copy from the repository, Checkout, lock, commit Send the changes made in the
working copy to the repository.
 Report Document Error, Software Error, Ambiguous, Inaccurate, Inconsistent, not testable, Test Script - functional effect,
Updating a Correction Report.
 Execute Mass Compile/Programming, Source Code Compile, Informal Test, Unit/Module Test, HW/SW Integration Test, CSCI
System Test, Engine Test, Airframe Bench Test, Flight Test,, In-Service, Analysis Review, Software Delivery
Tools Used: SVN, Mantis, JIRA, DOORS, SharePoint, Confluence, Jmeter, FileZilla,Splunk,PuTTY -Telnet and SSH for Windows
and Unix, Mac Terminal .
Data TraX - Toronto Test Engineer (Contract)
Jan 2012 – Sept 2012.
Project Description:
Software product for Point of sale application meets need for customer Wireless card payment Solution.
With DTI on board intelligence dumb credit/debit terminals into fully customized banking immediate real time payment and invoicing
for product sales travel ticketing application land line wired, LAN, WAN transaction processing equipment providing same solutions
on hand held devices.
Responsibility: Software QA- Analyst
 Software testing and automation scripting program with Python, C, C++, C# .NET, JAVA language.
 Execute Test for the system modules transaction queue engine, Biz Logic and Web portal.
 Programmed C language PIDION POS terminal, customize terminal UI and Test POS terminal.

40 Inniswood drive Toronto, ON M1R 1E5, 647-328-1045/416-532-3973





Developed software Tool for testing windows mobile SDK application using Visual studio 2013
Programmed and configured to integrate with back end Data SQL of different module.
Tested software for Web portal, FORMS, Payment Gate way messaging, Reports, Business logic, Ecom Server, Pos server and
transaction queue engine on Service oriented architecture ( SOA).
 Design Developed Automation frame work and automation script for testing web portal application using Selenium RC Web
Driver, JUNIT, using script by Java and python language
 Tested web portal application of technologies HTTP, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, and LAMP STACK and SOA.
 Analysis and Test the Database Tables DB2, SQL back end application, verify the invoice report with data base tables of different
system.
 Tested Payment gateway application Acceptance or Decline - Record Not Found ,Referral Message key processing for Credit Visa
processing , CVV1 ,CVV2 for fraud verification
 Testing software application Used by the POS Device to aid in diagnosing the batch capture status and/or problems and must be
displayed and/or printed Credit Card MasterCard Payment Transaction by debugging the code white box testing and block box
testing of Python developed Software application
 Tested and verified Transaction Code - Credit Card DCC Refusal / Re-Authorization, Credit Card Visa Account Funding, DCC
Rate Request, Key Exchange (CAD), Key Exchange (EMV) by debugging the C,C++,C# .NET based code in visual studio 2013.
 Tested Advanced business intelligence application developed with Python generating business report.
 Testing and verifying Status of retailer details, device information, device status, network status by white box testing of C,C++
based code on Visual studio IDE.
 Provide technical solutions to product management and/or users for validation, provide estimates/status updates to the Project
Management team for Object Oriented software solutions
Tools Used: SVN, VMware, Bugzila,Visual studio ,TFS, PuTTY -Telnet and SSH for Windows and Unix, Mac Terminal .
Spielo Gaming Solutions Software Test Engineer – Moncton Canada Jan 2011- Dec 2011
Project Description:
 Development Automation Software Tool Development business development system called Central System (GUI).
 Development of Automation Test for POS application Gaming and lottery corporations which connect Retailer terminals (iLink)
and video lottery terminal for online transaction processing.
 Developed automated testing environment for Web Portal application Video Lottery Terminal (VLT ) activation and retailer
terminal activation.
Responsibility: Software QA Automation Developer Test engineer
 Developed automated testing Desktop tool for Testing functionality of intelligent GUI software contact center Application
connected by Es - connect (network) ,OLTP (online transaction processing) Unix Host and DGM (Gaming devices Unix Host)
connected G2S ,TCP and UDP protocol developed using .
 Verify the complete system installation, configuration and integrate.
 Debug the C# software application on Visual studio and TFS development environment
 Execute white box testing of C# software visual studio IDE test the software application for security fraud violation in the
gaming and central system.
 Debug , code verification and white box block box testing of software application developed in C# at all level start from player
to retailer level at lottery terminal and video lottery terminal
 Prepare and run automation test scripts and scripts and execute test and QTP frame work automation tool VB scripting for Load
test of Game load to VLT from DGM (digital gaming machine) Game server.
 Testing functionality, regression testing of Web Portal application

Designed Developed automation Frame work for testing Web Portal application form and Back end Data base web transaction
automation script for web portal application using selenium web driver RC, JUNIT, Webdriver using JAVA, Python and C#.
 Developed automation for Testing Web portal application through Selenium web driver scripting for automation frame work using
Python, C, and C++, C #on Visual studio version 2012, working on HTML, JavaScript.
 Test verify and Analysis the Data base Tables DB2, SQL back end of Application, Data integration, Data migration, Master data
management and CMS
 Verify the invoice report by compare with data base tables of different sub system.
 Testing ETL Based application loaded data to Data Warehouse XML, SOAP, and REST application on Service oriented
architecture(SOA).

40 Inniswood drive Toronto, ON M1R 1E5, 647-328-1045/416-532-3973



Undertook main responsibilities will include software reliability, delivery and support analyze Requirements for development of
new or improvement of existing software solutions, Performed smoke test of hardware and subsystem
 Design technical solutions and perform feasibility studies that may include prototypes
 Testing and verifying Status of retailer details, device information, device status, network status.
Tools Used: SVN, VMware, JIRA,HP QC ALM , Test manager, Visual studio ,TFS, PuTTY -Telnet and SSH for Windows and Unix,
Mac Terminal .
Thales Rail Signaling, Toronto (Contract) Software Test Engineer
Aug 2007 - Jan2011
Project Description:
 Developed and Tested automation testing tool simulation tool using programming language C,C++ for Rail signaling solution
for Underground subway system (VOBC) Vehicle On Board Control embedded software application developed on Linux and
windows Visual studio environment for Seltrac Standard MS system Beijing Line 7 , Shanghai Line 7- 9.
 Developed and tested simulated automation testing tool for MAU (moving authority unit) on the Railway track a embedded
device software application developed with C,C++ on Linux environment and windows Visual studio integrated development
environment .
Responsibility: Embedded Software Test Engineer
 Executed automation Test software using C for testing VOBC (Vehicle On Board Control) system (VOBC is the system on board
of a train which communicates with MAU (Movement Authority Unit) and receives commands from ATS (Automatic Train Line
Supervision System)), testing and code fixing development using C,C++,C# on Visual studio 2010

Executed automation tool to Test the transport streams and communication protocols UDP/IP-RPC protocols
 Execute Module test, Unit Test, , functionality test ,Code Check-Clear Case and fix the code as per the coding standard
 Performed System Integration test using environment simulator application both automated script and manual
 Execute User acceptance test and performance test of integrated system
 Prepare test plan Executing test Plan
 Executed automation VB script for QTP to test Load analysis for connected different system like VOBC to Mau and central
system (ATS).
 Verify test Logs, and verify test result from expected log values and record the log values.
 Prepare Data base for messages send to different sub system using MySql , DB2 and integrate , analysis and Data base Data
logger of application loaded data to Data Analysis
 Automated testing tool QTP scripting with VBscript, UNIX shell script using C, automated web testing using Selenium, QTP for
with and Desktop application used C#, Python, Java.
Tools Used: JIRA, Test manager, Zyphyr,Visual studio ,TFS, PuTTY -Telnet and SSH for Windows and Unix.
Vionix Software, India
Software Test Engineer
2005 – 2007
 Project Description:
Development software testing tool for embedded software application for Medical mobile devices
Responsibility: Embedded Software Test Engineer
 Tested Application software application on C++, VC++, MFC on Visual Studio 2010
Connected through data logger MFC application with Windows Forms and MS-SQL Server
 Tested CAN controller operation, CAN for medical equipment that provides, sends and receives messages, error signaling and
automatic retransmission at user level
 Test and analyzed CAN chip equivalent or CAN protocol using C, C++, VC++, SDK, C# and mobile applications on Visual
studio 2010 and 2013
 Automation scripting for tools Smart inspect, QTP scripting with VBScript with languages, C, C++, C#, Python scripting.
Speech and Software Technology, India Senior System Software Test Engineer
2003 – 2005
Project Description:
 Developed software for Hand held device.
Responsibility: Software Test Engineer
 Developed and Tested Driver for T1 Card with PCI interface for IVR application with PCI interface for IVR, VOIP application
 Developed and Tested Driver software for Audio Codec IIS interface and analyze the message
 Debug and verify the complete performance of PDA Browser application for mobile devices using MFC, COM. That
application was connected to PDA Server, which connected the mobile device to outside world. The PDA Browser and PDA
Server connected via RDP protocol

40 Inniswood drive Toronto, ON M1R 1E5, 647-328-1045/416-532-3973

 Object Oriented application software development using programming languages C++,C#,Java
 Developed automation for testing windows mobile application using C++,VC++ in Visual studio 2008
EDUCATION and PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Bachelor of Computer Engineering, National Institute of Technology, India
Professional Level Certificate C, C++, VC++ Igeneis software , India
UNIX Administration Certificate
Seneca College, Toronto
C# .NET Programming Certificate
Seneca College, Toronto

40 Inniswood drive Toronto, ON M1R 1E5, 647-328-1045/416-532-3973

