1938 Ave de la Gare
Mascouche, QC J7K 0N9
Cell: (514)554-9450
CERTIFICATION:
Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) from (ISC)2

License number : 433937

Systems Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP) from (ISC)2

License number : 433937

Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator v8 (CHFI v8) from EC-Council

Certification number: ECC44535747620

Certified Ethical Hacker v8 (CEH v8) from EC-Council

Certification number: ECC89670509293

EDUCATION:
University of Québec – École de Technologie Supérieure
Master of Engineering program – IT Concentration (May 2017 - expected)
Saint Peter's College, Jersey City, NJ
Bachelor of Science Degree in Computer Science (MIS option), May 2002
Graduated with distinction (Summa cum Laude)
Overall GPA: 3.85/4.0
Associate of Science Degree in Information Systems, May 2001
Graduated with distinction (Cum Laude)
Overall GPA: 3.88/4.0
SKILLS:
Language: Bilingual: French and English (written and spoken)
Information Security: Access Controls, Information Security Governance and Risk Management, Intrusion and malicious
code prevention and detection, Incident response and management, Penetration Testing, Digital Forensics, Business
Continuity and Disaster recovery planning, Monitoring and Analysis, Controls and countermeasures, Auditing, Security
operations and Administration, Telecommunications and Network Security, Legal issues and regulations, including ISO
27000 series, PCI-DSS, SOX, COBIT to name a few, Cryptography, and Physical Security.
Software: HP Arcsight, MacAfee Antivirus and DLP products, AngryIP, SSH, ACE RSA SecurID, IBM Tivoli Storage
Manager, Juniper, PC Anywhere, DameWare, NetMeeting, Point of Sales Applications, Lotus Notes, Symantec Norton
Ghost, Adobe, Norton antivirus, Macromedia Dreamweaver 8.0, Basic IOS on Cisco Catalyst switches, MacAfee antivirus,
Active Directory, Microsoft Office, SourceFire, Visio, Basic Linux, Basic Unix, Registry Repair, VMWare, Citrix, Windows
suite through 10, Windows 8 and Advanced Server 2003 and 2008, Wireshark, Nessus, Nmap, Kismet, NetSurveyor, FTK,
EnCase.
Hardware: PC and compatibles, Upgrades of Hard Drive, NIC, RAM, RIB, SCSI, CD, ZIP, DVD and Floppy drives,
Processors, Servers, Routers and switches installation and configuration. Laser and inkjet printers troubleshooting and
repair. Pocket PC and wireless-enabled hand-held devices configuration and support, Portable Data Terminals, Point of
Sales equipment installation and support.
Networking: LAN and WAN design, setup and management using TCP/IP, Frame Relay, VTP, VPN, VLAN, RIP, Ethernet,
Access Lists, and dial in access services configuration.
EXPERIENCE:

Loto-Québec
IT Security Analyst
February 2016 to Present
 Monitor security events with HP Arcsight (SIEM) based on defined process by the service
 Create tickets, and initiate a security incident if needed
 Plan and process vulnerability assessments on IT infrastructure
 Collaborate on special projects with other infrastructure teams, including the network management team
 Provide expert guidance and support on information security matters
 Participate in IT Security Architecture reviews involving new solutions proposals from Vendors
Laurentian Bank of Canada Montréal, QC
Technical Analyst / IT Security Support June 2014 to February 2016
 Dealt with IT security issues, including virus infections, email, file attachment and spam issues
 Added certain group memberships when necessary in Active Directory
 Assisted users connecting remotely to VPN with RSA tokens
 Supported Information Security standards and processes
 Key processes supported involve exposure to log management in VMWare VDI/Windows 7 and XP environments
 Supported Internet Policy Enforcement, Data Loss prevention (DLP) policy, procedures and Mail filtering
 Restored files and folders on request from users
 Compliance with various regulations for financial institutions
 Dealt with IT security incidents, and interface with various teams for escalations and resolution
 Troubleshot anti-virus application issues, including manually updating virus definitions on hosts when necessary
 Provided IT support to all users for all applications and systems in Windows and VMWare environment
Independent Consultant via Corpus Conseil at BNP Paribas Montréal, QC
IT Security - Account Services Administrator July 2013 to April 2014
 Created, modified, and deleted network and application accounts.
 Applied permissions for server share access.
 Reset network and application account passwords.
 Created APG groups and arranged for worldwide permissions.
 Provided 24/7 support for account related issues.
 Disabled accounts as part of the Compliance Ten Days Out policy.
 Analyzed and resolved problems with accounts.
 Liaised with IT Security groups and support worldwide.
 Dealt with IT security incidents affecting user accounts.
 Distributed software to image users via SDG Manager and SMS.
 Provided on-site support for application migrations.
 Maintained Software Licensing Vault.
 Adherence to ISO processes and active involvement in process enhancement and development.
 Updated and maintained documentation and user lists.
 Compliance with various regulations for financial institutions, including PCI-DSS
Integrity Canada
Technical Support Analyst/ IT Security Support at BMO, Montreal, QC January 2012 to March 2013
 Authenticated users for access rights to applications and systems
 Added certain group memberships when necessary in Active Directory
 Assisted users connecting remotely to VPN with RSA tokens
 Reset passwords and Security tokens
 Provided Security Administrators with support for Security applications such as ITIM and SSH












Dealt with malware issues affecting single hosts
Installed and configured antivirus software
Configured Windows firewall on hosts
Raised and escalated requests for firewall rules changes
Supported Information Security standards and processes
Key processes supported involve exposure to log management in Windows XP and 7 environments
Supported Internet Policy Enforcement, Data Loss prevention (DLP) policy and procedures and Mail filtering
Compliance with various regulations for financial institutions, including PCI-DSS
Provided IT support for all users for all applications and systems
Troubleshot remotely software and hardware problems

QUANTUM Montreal, QC
Support Analyst / IT Security Support at the NSC for Loblaws April 2010 to October 2011
 Handled, investigated, and escalated IT Security incidents
 Tested Network Connections, and escalated issues to diverse Resolution Groups
 Authenticated users and reset passwords in Active Directory and AS/400
 Provided overnight Support on a rotational Basis to Store clerks, Vendor Technicians and Contractors on Loblaws'
sites for Server, router and switches upgrades, moves, adds and changes
 Provided first point of contact support for Linux-based POS Systems to Loblaws Stores across Canada
 Supported WMS (Manhattan and JDA) and TMS for Loblaws' Distribution Centers across Canada, and escalated
critical incidents to specialized resolution groups
 Assisted Office and Store Users with computer-related issues
Kelly Services Montreal, QC
Technical Support Analyst/ IT Security procedures Support for IBM Canada April 2009 to February 2010
 Provided first point of contact technical and operational Support to Canada Post Clerks
 Supported the Retail Point of Service Application for Canada Post, Systems, and Devices, including label, receipt,
and report printers (Laser Printer), Verifone (Debit/Credit machine), Portable Data terminals, Cellular and Dialup
Modems
 Supported Windows XP based PCs through Remote Desktop Server. Checked network settings, corrected DNS IP
addresses, and restored connection to networks on client systems.
 Re-installed and configured devices remotely, and applied software updates
 Dispatched vendor tickets after providing 2nd level support whenever necessary
 Answered questions on Canada Post procedures and policies for postal transactions.
 Assisted Users in resolving Cash management issues in the Point of Sales System
Surrex Solutions Corporation St Louis, MO
IT Consultant/ IT Security Support May 2008 to October 2008
 Authenticated users and reset VPN passwords
 Installed and configured antivirus software
 Configured firewalls on hosts
 Provided technical support to a variety of Users of a Multinational Corporation such as Nestlé.
 Provided first point of contact support for handheld devices, including Pocket PCs, Blackberry, and scanners.
 Acted as a Global Help Desk in troubleshooting various computer and Network problems,
 Remotely troubleshot network printers, and dispatched technicians.
 Assisted in the cross training of other associates in Brazil on Nestle Canada’s procedures for Technical Support.
 Translated English procedures in French
Foxconn Electronics Indianapolis, IN
Computer Repair Technician September 2006 to May 2008
 Repaired PCs and workstations in a computer manufacturing facility.



Cooperated with Quality Engineering to reduce scrap.

Accomplishments:
Repaired over 5000 Workstations and PCs at a FOXCONN facility.
Assisted with new systems tests.
Collaborated with Quality Engineering to reduce scrap, and minimize production costs.
Provided failure analysis and root cause reports to Management that helped minimize production costs related to scrap by
up to US $200,000 for the client.
Adecco Technical and Engineering Services Indianapolis, IN
IT Contractor/Hardware Tests Engineering and Repair Specialist May 2006 to September 2006
 Troubleshot and repaired computer systems at a computer manufacturing facility of FOXCONN and Hewlett
Packard.
 Gained exposure to Unix and Linux operating systems
 Involved in hardware engineering tasks at all levels of production.
 Repaired over 2000 PCs and Workstations.
BELL INDUSTRIES, Indianapolis, IN
Repair Associate January 2006 to May 2006
Maintained and repaired all kinds of high quality inkjet printers, including Stylus photo all-in-one printers. Replaced defective
hardware, including Print heads, and performed ECN on returned printers. Repaired over 500 printers.
Freelance IT Support and Security Consultant Indianapolis, IN October 2002 to May 2006
 Performed customization to computers as directed.
 Provided several individuals and systems owners with computer-related services.
 Implemented security measures, including firewalls and advanced BIOS configurations.
 Dealt with several security breaches, including Trojan horses, worms and spam.
 Monitored network performance in small home office LANs. Designed, and setup Small wireless networks.
 Operating Systems supported were Windows 95, 98, NT, 2K, XP and Linux
 Resolved issues involving TCP/IP, VPN, and DHCP connectivity on client systems
TAC Worldwide Companies, Indianapolis, IN
Systems Configuration Technician at Hewlett Packard July 2002 to October 2002
 Used SFC and Lotus notes on IBM AS/400 systems to track production, and loaded images on systems.
 Installed hardware components on servers, including SCSI Hard Drives, NIC, RAM, RIB, SCSI, CD, ZIP, DVD
drives, Heat Sinks and Processors.
 Built over 1000 systems, including workstations and servers.
 Trained new Technicians.
IT: User Support Services, Saint Peter’s College, Jersey City, NJ
Computer and Network Technician / IT Security Support July 2001 to May 2002
 Installed and configured antivirus software
 Handled IT Security incidents to resolution
 Participated in IT Security Audits
 Participated in the design of new computer labs
 Participated in the implementation of Security solutions
 Managed Lab and Data Center access
 Maintained and troubleshot school’s computers, and performed diverse operations in a network of over 500 nodes
 Upgraded software on workstations in all of the college’s computer labs using Norton Ghost Multicast server, and
replaced failed hardware components on computers
 Deployed new systems, including PCs, Workstations and Desktop computers
 Installed and setup network printers. Assisted with systems components inventory for the college





Run and terminated network cable to a wireless access point on campus
Setup a new Computer labs, and performed fiber optic installations on network backbones
Participated in IT Security Architecture reviews involving new solutions proposals from Vendors

