                                                                               
                          Salesforce Senior Developer

Carreer Profile

Consultant with over 13 years of expertise in development (Web Site, CRM and applications). Dedicated in each position he filled as if it was his own company. Uses on a regular basis the knowledge gained in each professional experiences (developer, technical lead, architect, team lead, project manager, sales, administration).

Professional Competencies

Architecture
 Complex Database Design built on current and future needs
 Identification and selection of technologies based on the cost, human and material resources
 Defining the standard and good practices related to performance, security, cost and quality
 Writing of integration plans


Integration and Development
 Production of professional and reusable material following the business analysis
 Integration built to provide more consistent user experience respecting limits and budget setted by the company
 Documentation of the workaround to make sure any future actors understand the technical reasons behind
 Deployment management: code review, merges, package management and writing of plans


Key Achievements
 Salesforce.com: Preparation of an implementation plan between CRM and ERP (NetSuite), while considenring corporate needs
 Salesforce.com: Implementation of the complete sales lifecycle (lead->opportunity->contract->purchase order->renewal opportunity)
 Salesforce.com: Architecture and implementation of ERP functionnalities (invoicing, payment cycle, online payment, fulfillement)
 Development of a "code-based portal" Salesforce.com (Site.com) including: credit card management, user management, single sign-on, support cases, forums, etc.
 Development of multiple connectors between Salesforce.com and external systems
 Development of a mass mailing system built on a Salesforce and Marketing Cloud (Exact Target)
 Development of a multiple PCI Compliant Payment Solutions including the connector (Salesforce.com / Braintree,Paypal,etc.), User Interface, Auto-(un)masking of VOIP audio recording, etc.
 Architecture and development of multiple RESTful API based on strict development standards and best practices in different languages
 Architecture and development of two of the top 100 biggest Website based on Alexa(TM), requiring AI, performance micro-optimisation, etc.

Training

Salesforce.com
 Advanced Developer (DEV-501)							   2013
 Sales Cloud Administration (ADM-251)						   2015
ScrumMaster											   2009

Experience

CM Consulting Services								    2016 - 
	Senior Developer & Architect

  * Understanding business requirements and translating these into technical solutions based on the chosen platform.
  * Designing and creating the underlying data structure and data flows to support the application build.
  * Providing appropriate development specifications and supporting the developers in delivering solutions.
  * Oversee all the deployments of the Continuous Integration
Lightspeed POS									    2013 - 2016
   Architect, project/team management and PHP and Salesforce Development
   
     * Facilitate requirements workshops, documenting detailed functional, technical, reporting & data requirements
     * Gather, create and document current and future business process flows. 
     * Conduct analysis of systems specifications and use analysis / diagramming tools to represent business / technical processes.
     * Engage with business stakeholders to gather/analyze requirements and map them to solutions that leverage salesforce functionality.
     * Demonstrate Salesforce capabilities to solve business problems.
     * Manage relationships with stakeholders to achieve project goals
     * Be part of a fast paced agile scrum team and participate in planning, documentation, execution, testing, and launch of projects.
     * Create and manage custom objects, fields, formulas, reporting snapshots and report types.
     * Coordinate with third party Apps and integration companies.
     * Develop and maintain validation rules and custom workflow rules
   
   
Techboom
	Architect, project/team management and development			    2009 - 2012

  * Assess clients' business needs.
  * Define functional requirements.
  * Produce a risk analysis.
  * Design and develop the different WEB applications.

iWeb Technologies									    2008 - 2009

Cyber Génération									    2006 - 2007
	
Business Cofounder and freelancer					     	     	    1999 - 2006
Technical Knowledge / Datasheet

Salesforce.com Experience
   Objects
   Lead, Account, Contact, Opportunity and Quote, Order, Contract, Asset, Case, Price Book and Products, Custom Object/Fields and more
   
   APIs
   REST, Bulk, Streaming, Metadata
   
   Integration/Development
   Class (trigger, controller, rest, email services, batch and scheduled), Pages (Visualforce and Components), Apex Limits
   
   Other
   Portals: Site.com, Customer Portal and Communities
   User: Profile, Roles, Permissions
   Other: Sharing, Validation, Approval, Territories, Forecasting
   
   Apps
   Skuid, Avalara, Marketo, InContact

Programming/Scripting Languages and Databases
   Apex, PHP, Bash, xHtml, Javascript, CSS, XUL (Firefox Plugins)

Standards, Concepts, Patterns and Development Methods
   W3C (xHtml 1.1 Strict, CSS (2/3), WCAG), Section 508, JSON, Apigee, E_Strict, ZF Coding Standards, PHP Coding Standards, MVC, CSS Zen Garden, SEO, SEM, UX/UI, High Traffic Performance Optimization, RESTful, oAuth (1/2) 

Frameworks & Template Engine
   Visualforce, Zend Framework, jQuery, NodeJS, Grunt, Smarty, Skuid, Moustache, Mosaico

Operating Systems
   Mac OS X, Linux (mainly Debian), Microsoft Windows

Software and Databases
   Zend Studio, Salesforce IDE, Sublime, Apache, Zend Server, Nginx, Git, Bitbucket, Subversion, Sphinx, Photoshop, Asterisk PBX, Redis, Memcache, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Jira, Bugzilla
   
Other (most common only)
   Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon Lambda, Google Analytics, Google Adsense, Google Adwords, Google Visualization, Braintree, Paypal, Marketing Cloud (Exact Target)
