Tel: téléphone77

Prénom77 Nom77
address77
Email: Nom77_Prénom778@hotmail.com

Summary of Qualifications:
A highly self-motivated experienced level 3 technical support specialist with expertise and
accomplishments in the following areas:









System upgrade and customization in large data production environment
Trouble shooting and diagnostics in various software and hardware systems
Excellent knowledge in database and SQL queries (i.e. SQL Server, PostgreSQL)
Excellent Java, Visual C++, Visual Basic language knowledge
Strong technical ability to work seamlessly with developer to debug and fix problem
Extremely strong problem resolving skills and excellent responsibility to customers
Proactive and positive communication and working attitude
Team player with independent Entreprise77-10 and great passion in work

Education and Training
Training in Java SE 7 Programming Ed 2
Bachelor Degree in Computer Science (Information Systems) in Université77-1, Montreal,
Quebec (June 2003)

Working Experience:
Mar. 2014 – Present
Entreprise77-8

Level 3 Specialist in

Provided level 3 support to the Europe, US and Singapore teams for tier 1 customers, such
as Entreprise77-1, Entreprise77-2, Entreprise77-3, Entreprise77-4, Entreprise77-5,
Entreprise77-6 and ENTREPRISE77-7 on a range of online payment, 3D secure and fraud
& risk management services; Monitored and maintained stability and availability of all the
services in multiple production data centers; Performed seamless failovers between Live
and DR systems on production environments; Helped achieving higher transaction
acceptance rate by analysing historical data trend; Deployed and managed development
packages and versions on payment and risk services; Established and maintained a close
liaison with customer (i.e. Entreprise77-2) and partner (i.e. China Union Pay) with
technical and language (Mandarin) skills; Developed internal tools to resolve technical
recurring problems (e.g. SSIS package creation, SQL optimization scripts).
Working environment: SQL Server 2008, IIS Server Management, Windows, Mac.
Feb. 2012 – Mar. 2014
Entreprise77-9

Application / Implementation Specialist in

Implemented new customers in Leave Management System (LMS) and managed the
migration of customers from competitor systems to LMS; Tested and supported
deployments and installations; Assisted with training; Worked very closely with database
administrator using SQL queries to accomplish our customers’ requests; Undertook process
development and improvements to support such implementations on an ongoing basis;
Identified opportunities for continuous improvement according to customer feedback.
1

Working environment: Linux, Windows, Java, PostgreSQL.

Dec.2007 – Oct.2011

Technical Lead (Analyst previously)
in ENTREPRISE77-10 (Entreprise77-11)

Provided technical guidance to software deployment team to ensure the highest level of
support to the customers; Deployed all kinds of software packages to customer working
environment; Developed database application for various devices upgrade projects;
Supported the software and hardware installations, upgrades, troubleshooting and
maintenance via remote control desktop or phone.
Working environment: SCCM, Citrix, WBSD, Tandem/PrimeCode, AS400, Visual Basic,
SQL Server 2008, HP Service Desk on varieties of servers such as Windows, Unix/Linux.
March 2007 – July 2007

Return Merchandise Authority
in ENTREPRISE77-12 (Vancouver)

Tested and troubleshoot computer hardware by using various diagnostics tools; Dealt with
customers returning products and handling return replacement repair of some hardware of
defectives.
March 2004 – April 2006

Project Manager Assistant/Co-ordinator
Entreprise77-13 (China)

Worked on many new building projects in China. In particular, two Handymax Bulk
carriers at NACKS / China, one capesize Bulk Carrier at SWS / China, two Super
Handymax Bulk carriers (Diamond 53) at NCS / China and one Panamax Bulk Carrier in
Jiangnan / China. Participated the China Marintec Exhibition 2005 in Shanghai, helping the
Purchasing Director to find proper supplier sources.
Oct.2003 – Mar.2004

IT Consultant
Entreprise77-14

Developed and maintained the web sites www.quebecchinese.com, www.CJX International
INC.com and company LAN systems. Developed the online assessment tools to facilitate
the candidates’ self-evaluation.

Language
English, Chinese, French

Personal Interest
Sports (basketball, snooker, ski, etc.), Cooking and Travelling

2

