RÉSUMÉ
Prénom80 Nom80, Eng., M.Sc., MBA, PMP
Bilingual Program Management
CAREER PROFILE
Mr. Nom80 is an effective leader, result oriented, customer-focused. 
He experience comprises over 19 years of cross functional project and program management, information technology, Business intelligence, large implementation, software development programs driving public and private sectors corporations and emerging market organizations to solve complex problems with budgets over 10 M$. 
He has demonstrated leadership skills, strong tactical and critical strategic thinking capabilities in working in a high pressure, fast moving, diverse environment of decision-making. He has proven strong interpersonal skills and managerial ability for team-working, financial management; good communication skills. He has demonstrated ability to work effectively with diplomacy with various stakeholders and build effective working relations with clients, colleagues and any stakeholder. 
He holds a bachelor of sciences in Electrical Engineering, MBA degree (Master in Business Administration), from Université80-1, and M.Sc. from Université80-2 of Montreal. Mr. Nom80 is a certified PMP (Project Management Professional). 
Known for his leadership, strategy, negotiation and communication skills, he is a bilingual (English, French) frequent speaker and has lectured at numerous forums on topics like program management, strategy, leadership, entrepreneurship.
He, served as Vice-President and Board of directors at the PMI (Project Management Institute), and member of MBA Association of Québec (AMBAQ).
His involvements has been recognized several times. He is laureate ``MBA of the Month" Association des MBA du Québec (AMBAQ), and ``board member of the year'' of RJENTREPRISE80-5 (Regroupement des Jeunes Chambres de Commerces du Québec). 


FUNCTIONAL EXPERTISE
Technologies:
SAP, Microsoft Office, PDF Adobe, Linux; Unix, Citrix; Windows 7/ Server 2008 R2; Active Directory; Changepoint; E-Vault; Netbackup; SCADA; Data Center, Data warehouse, E-Vault, MS Exchange, SAN; SCCM; SharePoint; Virtualisation; MS Exchange; Vmware SRM(disaster Recovery), ISO 9001; PMBOK; ITIL; Macroscope; Waterfall, C/C++; PL/SQL; VB.Net; Pascal; Visual C++, IPVPN, MPLS, Fortinet, MS Project; EPM, Téléphonie; OCS Unified communication
EDUCATION
2000
MBA (Master In Business Administration)
Université80-1
1995
Master in Science Applied
Université80-2
1993
Bachelor Electrical Engineering
Université80-2
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING
2010
ITIL (ITILv3 Foundation Syllabus 4.2 curriculum)
DELL Computers
2009
DPMF (DELL Project Management Framework)
DELL Computers
2007
PMI Leadership Forum
PMI
2007
Minority Leadership Forum
Accenture
2005
Program and Portfolio Management Standards
PMI
2005
From Planning to Execution-Leadership- Management
Association des MBA
2003
Formation sur le leadership et la gestion efficace d'équipe
PMI
LANGUAGES
English and French
CERTIFICATION
2003
Certification PMP (Project Management Professional)
PMI (Project Management Institute)
AWARD
2015
Lauréat coup de cœur leadership Cultures Croisées, Montréal
2014
Lauréat, Association des diplômés de l'École Polytechnique de Montréal
2014
Lauréat Leadership coup de cœur de <<Horizons Interculturels>>
2014
Membre du CA du CIBIM (Conseil des Industries Bioalimentaires de Montréal)
2013
Administrateur de l'année: RJENTREPRISE80-5 (Regroupement des Jeunes Chambres de Commerces du Qc)
Since 2010
Membre du Conseil régional de mentorat de Montréal
2008-2014
Président du comité RH au CA du RJENTREPRISE80-5
2009
Co-Auteur du livre ``25 règles de jeux non écrites''
2008
Lauréat Oscar pour le Carrefour des Communautés du Qc
2007
MBA du Mois décerné par l'Association des MBA, Québec
2007
Lauréat du Mois de l'Histoire des Noirs 2007
Since 2005
Cofondateur Réseau des Entrepreneurs et Professionnels Africains (www.repaf.org [HYPERLINK: http://www.repaf.org])
2005
Évaluateur de projets d'affaires, Fondation Montréal Inc.
2005-2010
Membre du CA et VP Activités, du Entreprise80-23
2005-2010
Co-fondateur de la 1ère communauté de pratiques du Entreprise80-23
2003-2005
Comité réseautage, de l'Association des MBA du Québec
1998-2000
Membre du CA et trésorier, Association des Étudiants MBA HEC et CPE 4 Coins du Monde
                                WORK EXPERIENCE
ENTREPRISE80-1
Senior Program Manager 
November 2014 to November 2015
Clients and programs:
BRP: international Call center implementation and management. Business intelligence project;
Entreprise80-3: VOIP telephony, Mobile, Call center implementation migration and management;
ENTREPRISE80-4: large telephony implementation, migration and equipment renewal;
ENTREPRISE80-5: telephony equipment monitoring.
Duties:
Single point of contact for complex ($ multimillion) cross functional programs; 
Restructured projects in difficulties to ensure project original objectives are met with stakeholders;
Create, update and control project plans, budgets, schedules and evaluate all efforts;
Structured programs for successful delivery with respect to governance, scope, schedule, and budget;
Worked and closely collaborated with a wide range of stakeholders; 
Built strong relationships at senior management and executive levels; 
Provided regular project status to executive stakeholders;
Employed rigorous project management discipline in all delivery work (status reporting; risk; issues; budget; communications management; Performance Indicators; and project close); 
Provide leadership to program team. Assures communication and cooperation among team members and resolves areas of conflict; 
Participate to RFQ for clients like Maisonneuve Rosemont Hospital.
ENTREPRISE80-6
Senior Program Director
November 2011 to November 2014
Clients / programs:
Entreprise80-7 Canada: Canada wide Migration IPVPN  -  MPLS;
Entreprise80-8: application development, implementation. Mobile device implementation, organisational assessment. Business intelligence project;
STM (Société de Transport de Montréal): large migration Windows 7 and windows server 2008;
ENTREPRISE80-5 (Commission de Construction du Québec): ITIL implementation.
Duties:
Single point of contact for complex cross functional programs; 
Member of the strategic project and program management team;
Restructured projects in difficulties to ensure project original objectives are met with stakeholders;
Create, update and control project plans, budgets, schedules and evaluate all efforts;
Taking care of various clients in the public and private sector;
Structured programs for successful delivery with respect to governance, quality, schedule, resourcing, and budget;
Software development life cycle for SQ: Supervise the Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing and Implementation phases for many software applications development;
Worked and collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders;
Built strong relationships at senior management and executive levels;
Lead programs monitoring with dashboards and supervise projects tracking;
Provided regular executive project status to executive stakeholders;
Coach and mentor different team members and consultants;
Managed and direct the daily execution of multiple programs or large scale programs within contractual requirements;
Lead meetings and integrated team (kick-off to project close).
ENTREPRISE80-9
	Owner, Senior executive strategic consultant
Strategy, Management and Technologies	Since August 2001
Duties:
Work and collaborate with company partners suppliers ICT companies to understand their product roadmaps and the application of them to our proposed solutions;
Contribute to the development of strategic plans and programs;
Mandates in various countries like BURKINA FASO, GHANA, SENEGAL;
Duties span Financial Services, Development, Communications, High Technology, and Consumer Electronics industries.
Entreprise80-10
Senior Programs Manager
July 2007 to August 2011
Clients / programs:
In charge of many strategic deployments programs across Canada (ENTREPRISE80-11, Entreprise80-12, Entreprise80-13, ENTREPRISE80-14, ENTREPRISE80-15, ENTREPRISE80-16, ENTREPRISE80-17, ENTREPRISE80-18, ENTREPRISE80-19, ENTREPRISE80-20, ENTREPRISE80-21, etc.)
Entreprise80-18 - VINE system (Employee Visual Information Network  -  Digital Signage): Managed cross Canada wide multi-site project with many partners (61 sites, 87 players, 510 LCD, 27,000 employees). Business intelligence project; 
ENTREPRISE80-15: Managed multisite deployment of visual communication systems;
Entreprise80-2: Managed the deployment of more than 3500 computers on 5 sites across Canada;
Entreprise80-5: Managed the deployment of new Windows version across the company. Business intelligence project;
Entreprise80-22: Managed the deployment of many material across Canada, Europe and Asia. 
Duties:
Managed different projects with leading edge technologies. Responsible of budget, schedule, specifications; 
Restructured projects in difficulties to ensure project original objectives are met with stakeholders;
Create, update and control project plans, budgets, schedules and evaluate all efforts; 
Software development life cycle: Supervise the Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing and Implementation phases for many software applications development;
Manage, assign and monitor multidisciplinary resources to ensure projects are delivered with quality, on time, budget;
Prepared and presented progress reports to executives;
Deployed a virtualization project and Disaster Recovery System with VMWARE's SRM (Site Recovery Manager);
Coordinate strategy development and monitoring;
Managed data Centre implementation, practices and services;
Used SAP software.
Environment:	Sharepoint implementation, Virtualisation, VMware SRM (disaster recovery), Windows7, Data warehouse), E-Vault, MS Exchange, OCS Unified communication, SAN, NETBACKUP, Mobility platform; Equalogic; ACF, DDPS, MCF; SCCM; Active Directory; Netbackup
ENTREPRISE80-23
	VP Activities & co-founder of the first Community 
Project Management Institute	of Practice on PMO (Project Management Office)
	2003 to 2010
Responsible of the strategic activities team of the corporation.
Duties:
Prepared planning and strategy documents;
Participated in and coordinated the corporation Strategy and policy development work;
Provided support to the team when required, in particular on policy developments, and on the response to political emerging issues and opportunities;
Assisted Vice Presidencies to formulate their work programs and specific strategies driven by the planning and strategy;
Provided up to date research on environment and business trends and keep up to date on new ways of doing strategic planning itself;
Participate in the preparation of selected mid-term reviews. 
Entreprise80-24
Senior Project Manager
June 2006 to July 2007
Member of the strategic team 
In charge of various cross-functional projects with up to 20 people to manage and budgets of $5 Millions. Managed and delivered complex and high visibility projects such as SCADA, and complex software development automation and instrumentation solution with the Montreal Transport Board (AMT), including Metro de LAVAL.
Duties:
Single point of contact to successfully deliver projects; 
Managed cross functional engineering team to deliver SCDA solution;
Create, update and control project plans, budgets, schedules and evaluate all efforts. Write-up Project Management, communication plan and Risk Assessment related documentation;
Prepare and present progress reports to executives and track dependencies with other projects;
Manage change requests, schedule, quality and budget. Deal with issues and/or escalations in an organized, timely and pro-active manner. Ensure the respect of the methodology by all participants of the delivery teams;
Act as coach for different team members.
ENTREPRISE80-25 Inc.
Entreprise80-7 Canada	Senior Project Manager
Business unit to Entreprise80-7 Canada	November 2004 to April 2006
In charge of a number of cross-functional projects in a virtual team management environment. Manage and deliver complex and high visibility projects.
Duties:
Prepare and negotiate consulting and project mandate; 
Create, update and control project plans, budgets, schedules and evaluate all efforts. Write-up Project Management, communication plan and Risk Assessment related documentation;
Supervise the Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing and Implementation phases for many software applications;
Supervise the integration of various applications in order to deliver one solution;
Participated in the creation of best project management practices in the department; 
Used SAP software.
Entreprise80-26, Montréal
Entreprise80-27, Entreprise80-28, Entreprise80-29, Entreprise80-30	Senior Project Manager
	June 2004 to November 2004
Duties:
Single point of contact to deliver complex cross functional projects;
Managed and monitored internal resources (delivery teams) and budgets for software solutions development;
Meet on-time/on-budget service levels. Apply quality standards to all deliverables;
Participated in creating and developing the new PMO (project management office);
Create and manage the Work Breakdown Schedules;
Managed multiple suppliers and sub-contractors (vendors). 
Entreprise80-31
NPI Program Manager
2000 to September 2003
Duties:
Reported to the General Manager, responsible for new product development programs with cross-functional and international virtual teams (software, hardware engineering, marketing, production) from product concept to product launch. Supervised 10-20 team members with reports to Vice presidents;
Provided leadership to manage program change, address program issues, motivate team, execute program plan, develop high-Level milestone plan, establish internal and external alliances, develop and present program status, and obtain executive approval;
Managed various programs for new products introduction from the product concept to production;
Provided Leadership for virtual team management. Developed, managed various strategic business plans;
Organize "customer needs assessment" and partnership activities in Europe, Canada and USA to validate new products technical specifications, with clients like Teradyne, Lockheed-Martin, Nokia, Ericsson;
Key Member of new products roadmap strategic team (portfolio management and project prioritization);
Used SAP software.
Entreprise80-32inc.
Electrical engineering Manager
May 1998 to December 2000
Duties:
Reported to the general manager. Responsible for automation software, industrial furnaces projects management and control panel fabrication. Supervised 4 direct reports;
Managed international projects of more than 10 M$ (Africa, Europe, Asia).
ENTREPRISE80-33
	Software Programer
Centre de développement de logiciels, Poly, UdM	1994 to 1996
	1997 to 1998
Duties:
Participated in software development team to deliver optimisation products to clients like Air Canada, Via Rail, CN.
Entreprise80-34inc.
Project manager
1996 to 1997
Duties:
Manage a team of 3 people;
Manage automation SCADA projects.
ENTREPRISE80-35, Dakar, Sénégal
Ingénieur électrique et automatisation - Chef d'équipe
1991 to 1994
Duties:
Creating a SCADA system; 
Assistant-engineering at OTP (Office Togolais des Phosphates).
